---
layout: archive
permalink: /dissertation/
title: "Dissertation"
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /dissertation
---


## The Autocrat’s Labor Dilemma: How Dependent Courts Manage Elite-Mass Conflicts in Pro-Worker Reforms

I am currently working on my dissertation, which aims to shed light on the conditions under which autocrats enact labor legislation that protects workers. My core argument, along with some of the empirical findings, is summarized in my forthcoming paper titled "Appeasing Workers without Great Loss: Autocracy and Progressive Labor Legislation," scheduled to be published in _Comparative Politics_.

It is well recognized that authoritarian governments often adopt pro-worker policies as a means to preempt revolutionary threats. However, in many authoritarian regimes, the political and economic elites wield substantial de facto power, which poses an imminent threat to the ruling regime. The enactment of worker-friendly legislation introduces a delicate balancing act for autocrats, who must navigate the inherent tradeoff between providing benefits to workers and mitigating the potential negative impact on the economic interests of the elites.

In my dissertation, I develop a theory of judicial balancing to illustrate the distributional dilemma faced by autocrats and ascertain the conditions under which autocrats enact pro-worker legislation. With a particular focus on the role of autocratic courts, I argue that when a judiciary is limited in its independence, autocrats possess greater flexibility to manipulate the distributional outcomes of progressive labor laws to suit their situational needs. This judicial flexibility provides autocrats with a greater incentive to enact pro-worker legislation in response to bottom-up demand.

My dissertation illustrates the utility of argument using the significant case of China’s 2008 Labor Contract Law (LCL), which stands as a prominent example of highly protective labor legislation by international standards. Through within-case process tracing, I spotlight two distinct balancing strategies of autocratic courts prevailing in the post-LCL period. My case analysis reveals that the courts either act as instruments of the regime, prioritizing the interests of elites—especially during economic hardships, or exhibit a strong bias in favor of workers— particularly in circumstances where social instability looms large. This case study highlights how dictatorial governments utilize their ex post control over a limited independent judiciary to survive distributive tensions.

In addition, I provide causal evidence that the degree of judicial independence does have distributional consequences that have broad implications for authoritarian survival. I assemble, to date, the most comprehensive court rulings data on labor disputes (approximately 500,000 cases) within China. This dataset is then geo-referenced to city-level variations in judicial independence, resulting from the staggered judicial centralization reforms starting in 2015. Utilizing a difference-in-differences strategy, I find that when court independence increases, there is a corresponding increase in pro-worker court decisions. These findings support a core implication of my argument, suggesting that when courts possess greater independence, authoritarian politicians are less capable of utilizing the judiciary to compensate economic elites for their losses from progressive labor laws.

Furthermore, I probe the long-term stability implications of the judicial balancing strategy. I explore whether the LCL, given its compromised enforcement within the judiciary, has the potential to undermine regime stability in the long run. Through an original, pre-registered survey experiment, I reveal that, for autocrats, such legislation does not further erode regime support when compared to the scenario where no further action is taken to address grievances. Further analysis suggests that such legislation, provided it still delivers partial benefits, can mitigate the backlash resulting from unfulfilled expectations, leading to more mixed and ambivalent attitudes towards the regime among the public. 

Finally, I examine the applicability of my argument beyond China by utilizing quantitative cross-country evidence. I advance a novel cross-national latent measure of mass threats covering 122 authoritarian countries from 1960 to 2018. This measure is derived using a dynamic Bayesian latent variable model that synthesizes 13 observed indicators representing two core facets of mass threats: grievance and organizational capacity. Using this new measure, I conduct a time-series cross-sectional data analysis and find that, consistent with my core hypothesis, as judicial independence decreases, mass threats have a greater effect on labor regulations. 

My dissertation makes two main scholarly contributions. First, while past research on autocratic courts has predominantly emphasized their functions in terms of regime legitimation, administrative oversight, commitment-making, and repression, my work sheds light on an oft-overlooked function of autocratic courts: they help balance the interests of elites and the masses amid distributive tensions. Second, while our current understanding of institutions and redistribution centers around political and electoral institutions, my dissertation moves beyond this traditional focus. I draw attention to judicial institutions, which, through their decisions and interpretations of the law, determine winners and losers and thus can have significant distributional consequences. Building on this point, my work further points out the inherent flexibility of autocratic judiciaries in influencing these distributional consequences, which autocrats can exploit to advance their own interests. Combined, these insights enhance our understanding of the broader institutional dynamics at play in the process of redistribution and governance under autocratic regimes.
